I didn't think wild and out would be the
billion dollar conglomerate I was just
creating a show because Kevin Hart
needed money to pay his rent please
welcome
[Music]
Mr host comedian true Superstar who's in
Nick Cannon I'm me
Nick you've been a Pioneer I read that
one of your companies has generated more
than a hundred million dollars that was
just in our headphones sale we have a
tour that makes millions a cruise line
restaurants as a kid I learned that I
may not be the most talented person in
the room but I'll be the hardest worker
in the world that's how you get it some
people play basketball and that's a
basketball players don't try it if you
try it it's not gonna do it as if
there's no other option so by the time I
was 17 I started writing for Keenan and
kale the youngest staff writer in TV
history yeah I was like Harry Potter
with the pig and then Will Smith signed
to me I was living my dream life but I
always felt like I had a ticking clock
the latest on the health scare from Nick
Cannon Nick Cannon has lupus if you
don't catch it and control it it you can
lose your life pretty quickly you said
that you wouldn't be alive right now if
it wasn't for Mariah Carey yeah it makes
you question what are you going to do
with the time that you you have on this
planet what impact are you going to make
when you're not afraid of dying you
focus on living and then you dealt with
the loss of your son at just five months
old due to brain cancer
you never know how strong you are to the
only option
[Music]
Nick what do I have to understand about
your earliest years to understand the
man that you are today
I'm gonna steal that question
uh
I'd have to say that uh
optimism
youthful optimism
you know some call it imagination
but I the world was just
so big but yet so tangible for me you
know uh I felt even as you I felt like I
had this magic that I could just
manifest anything
uh good or bad you know what I mean it
was a
I I lived this life to where as small as
the community was
disenfranchised and maybe
not as upwardly mobile as as uh one
would see from the household I had this
big imagination and in my mind is
superpower that I could be do or
whatever whatever I wanted I it was all
in my grasp and I could I don't know
where I got it from but I was just as a
kid as a teenager
I always felt like I had this ability to
to walk in a room and get whatever I
wanted
but the environment that you were raised
in wasn't one of yeah great abundance
yeah that's what was so crazy about it
like I would you know even growing up in
the projects growing up in scenarios
that we didn't have a lot but I felt
like I had a lot I felt like
I was always destined for to and it
wasn't even like about Fame it wasn't
about
um money it was just about
I like my life I'm gonna have fun I'm
gonna have a good time I was always that
you know you know let's
let's smile about it you know what I
mean uh even in some
difficult and he had tumultuous times I
would still find you know a silver
lining I would still find a way to smile
through pain and
uh it's it's worked you know it's always
kept me
level-headed you know
um even in the midst of having a
a a abnormal and extraordinary life it's
like
even the thing that humbles me is the
fact that I'll just enter spaces with
gratitude and optimism
even in pain
what was your family home like
see that's the thing like probably
looking back at it
one would be like it definitely wasn't
Orthodox you know and we didn't come
from much but
it was joyous it was filled with love
you know my parents had me you know as
teenagers they were young I went to my
dad's High School graduation like uh
but
you know his parents helped raise me my
mom was constantly working you know
school work my dad went off to college
uh
and then you know I kind of felt like I
grew up with my parents uh and their
parents assisted in raising us all so
but it was households filled with love
um but you know wasn't traditional by
any means so there there were the
obstacles of you know trying to figure
it out and
parents and grandparents putting food on
the table uh but that I think that also
gave me a different type of drive to say
all right we're gonna we're gonna have
to make something out of nothing
your parents separated when you were
very young obviously I feel like my
parents had sex once
just one time
and then I showed up uh because they
were kids man you know like I don't
really know
the intricate details of the
relationship but I definitely knew they
weren't together
um it was a
but not not enemies by any means you
know what I mean they were they were
just teenagers they were kids so uh
after you know I was born they kind of
went their separate ways but
my dad's parents kind of kept kept
everyone together and it was a
close-knit thing and you know when when
my mother needed assistance and uh my
grandmother would would be there to help
her out my father's mother and even
though my father necessarily wasn't
physically present for you know he was
you know actually doing
good things for himself where you know
getting a college degree and trying to
figure it out and have a family
infrastructure elsewhere uh
his mom would help my mom kind of keep
me afloat he turned his life around
quite significantly didn't he yeah yeah
yeah my dad was definitely headed down a
path uh of Destruction early on and then
it clicked for him you know
through some experiences of you know
incarceration
you know being able to kind of leave
some of those
substances out there that were you know
kind of the downfall of you know the
community in the 80s he was he was able
to escape and get put his life on the
right path and you know dedicated his
life to his ministry and helping others
it worked
when you were you were a young man you
nearly went down the wrong path yeah I
went down there figured like it made a
u-turn went back you know what I mean
like uh
I I think human nature we all kind of
gravitate towards the unknowing
sometimes and that usually is the past
header are sometimes the darkest
sometimes like you just want to
you don't want to do the responsible
thing you don't want to do what your
parents may suggest so I I definitely
have a rebellious nature I'm definitely
an anti-authoritarian I'm definitely the
kid that has to feel that the pot is hot
you know they're like okay I'm not gonna
I know what getting burned feels like so
um I think it's probably just my
you know nature of exploring and wanting
to understand things
it's cool it's cool to be a bad boy when
you're young uh and especially when for
me the mold wasn't necessarily presented
that way so
I I definitely went through a stage of I
want to prove to people that you know
I'm I'm not a Goody Two Shoe all the
time and I would that took so much
touring to do
um but then it's also a lot of it is
environment when you grow up in
especially Southern California you know
there's times where
uh the life of gang violence was
glorified and you know whether it's
through music through entertainment
through our culture you know
uh when you come from the trenches you
get a certain level of respect you get a
certain level of uh
reverence
so I I grew up admiring a lot of that
and therefore kind of took that path a
few times but you know luckily I didn't
get caught up you know like
some of my my other friends and
Associates did what saved you from that
puff creativity like I said that
optimism which then obviously was
transmuted into entertainment
when you're a young man say you're like
between the age of 10 and 14. if I'd
asked you what you wanted to be and what
you thought you'd be when you were
42. yeah yeah what would you have told
me
uh same thing a rapper you know probably
that if it was just as simple as like at
10 years old what I was focused on I
loved hip-hop
I loved I knew I was in my mind I was
famous in the hood like I just wanted to
eat because I was already doing stuff
there you know what I mean I always had
demo tapes and I was already connected
to our
to our streets and our blocks just as
being in the community somebody with a
voice not always a positive voice I was
you know I was considered a uh
[Music]
I try to think I wasn't a bad kid but I
was a kid that everybody knew about you
know but luckily
my art my creativity allowed people to
appreciate me
um even at 10 years old like within my
family within my community what did your
art and creativity look like at that
stage rap music yeah it was loud it was
adhd-ish it was the kid who could do it
all you know kind of also had a church
background so I was you know I was
always I was a Class Clown at school
trying to be funny starting to just
figure out oh there's careers in that
space so I started to look up to a lot
of people like the Eddie Murphy's
uh even the you know at the time The
Fresh Prince as we know is Will Smith
but he was just he was just charismatic
funny rapper at the time so those were
you know but at the same time I was
looking up to the ice cubes and two
shorts and you know which was a whole
different energy
um so that was kind of like my makeup of
like well I want to be like these guys
and you start doing stand-up comedy at
11 years old I had 11. that's TV
officially doing it at 11. I have been
you know doing stuff in church and stuff
you know trying to make people laugh but
like first stand-up stage I got home was
I was 11 years old strikes me as someone
that grew up very quickly yeah
because I I was always caught an old
soul
uh and I think it was because I grew up
around
older people with uh my grandparents
kind of being you know
Patriarchs for me
um
their children were my siblings my
father who was you know a teenager was
somewhat more of like a big brother type
of uh thing so like even the way he
dealt with me and even the people that I
dealt with in my community I just I kind
of had mannerisms and a jargon that was
a little little wise beyond my years
you're a big brother as well right yeah
and then you know ultimately my dad had
a my mother's only child but my dad had
five five boys in total so you know I
was the and I was the oldest and he and
I's connection was different than you
know the connection with my younger
brothers because I was almost someone
you know
I was closer to my father
then you know his parenting style was
different with me than it was with you
know his younger children it boggles my
mind that someone at 11 years old starts
doing stand-up comedy yeah because it
takes takes some guts and some
confidence to do that but I guess that
speaks to who you were at 11 years old
yeah by 15 years old you're at The
Comedy Store
yeah I mean I met so many comedians but
Jamie was definitely one of the ones
that kind of just because it's such a
giving
and loving individual kind of saw this
kid and and was like I love it like come
hang out like and because you know
Hollywood was
miles away from my neighborhood so uh
figuratively and literally like it was
just like I needed a place to stay a lot
of times so you know catching
catching car rides or even once I got my
own vehicle I had nowhere to sleep so
people would know that I was sleeping in
my car
or wouldn't have a place to sleep so
people like Jamie Foxx would let me
sleep on that couch
Brothers like guy Tori if you've seen
the Fat Tuesday documentary about you
know the the black Side Of The Comedy
Store he had a night that you know he
would let me open up and as people were
coming in I'd be entertaining the
audience at like as a teenager you know
and the guys like Chris Tucker and Damon
Wayans and Eddie Griffin all these guys
will be going on later on in the night
but I was the guy I was the kid that was
welcoming you know everybody into their
seats and it'd be like Shaquille O'Neal
and Kobe Bryant and Snoop Dogg and like
all of these people in the audience and
there's this 15 year old on stage you
know rapping and telling jokes and you
know everybody else saw something that I
was just I was just having a blast I was
I didn't think about what the future was
going to uh to offer up I was just like
yo this is this is a dream come true
right now
people might hear that and go oh he got
lucky 15 years old whatever you know
what was then talk to me about the
intentionality behind that like if
there's a 15 year old listen to
listening to this right now yeah
what did you do to put yourself there in
hindsight it's not always easy to know
in the moment yeah I was definitely a
hustler like it what I don't think you
know I don't believe in luck I believe
in alignment you know what I mean like
and you got to put yourself in those
positions it's like you know some people
say luck is preparation meets
opportunity
um
I was always speaking
myself into existence I would put myself
in those environments like I I met Jamie
Foxx because I walked up to him like yo
what's up Jamie Foxx I'm Nick Cannon
like ever since I was four years old I
introduced myself as my full name like
everybody used to think it was so funny
like as a four-year-old I'm Nick Cannon
like I just thought my name was cool I
thought you everybody else you know you
teach a kid to say their first name and
it's funny I teach my children the same
way like nah you got your full name your
your your Monroe Cannon you're you know
your powerful Canon you know what I mean
like and I think maybe I got that from
such a cool last name like I think my
dad probably did that his dad probably
did that like it's just like they called
you know my grandfather they called him
Cannon or daddy Cannon it was just like
it's such a cool name so and that's why
I was like I believe it's so much in the
name but so even as I think those steps
kind of ordered
the personality so then when I would
find myself in scenarios that I would
take advantage of them I wasn't a shy
kid wasn't overly outgoing kid either I
wasn't like I I kind of my 80d kind of
maybe
shifted like made me always
seeking attention or like I don't say I
was seeking it I got attention because I
was always doing something I was always
in some because I was just trying
to figure it out therefore I got a lot
of attention and a lot of it probably
wasn't positive attention but it was
just attention
um
and then from there you know that
shifted you know I grew up around
Hustler so I was like all right we're
gonna try to we're going to figure it
out if it was a door over there I'm
gonna figure out how to get in that door
uh and that's how I was able to rub
shoulders and you know I I studied rooms
and I'm like all right I if I'm a if I'm
a maneuver in here I gotta do it in a
way that
not just based off of instinct I gotta I
gotta put a plan together and I I move
like that you know since
since again I think this is fascinating
I looked at the back end of our YouTube
channel and it says that since this
channel started
69.9 percent of you that watch it
frequently haven't yet hit the Subscribe
button so I have a favor to ask you if
you've ever watched this Channel and
enjoyed the content if you're enjoying
this episode right now please can I ask
a small favor please hit the Subscribe
button helps this channel more than I
can explain and I promise if you do that
to return the favor we will make the
show better and better and better and
better and better that's the promise I'm
willing to make you if you hit the
Subscribe button do we have a deal what
did you learn from Jamie Foxx What What
In lasting influence has he had on you
the way you are your career your
perspective it's so interesting man I
have so many great mentors coming up
um I feel like a lot of my first part of
my career
I always acknowledge and bigged up Will
Smith yeah because he was so influential
to me uh you met him from Jake by
through Jamie not well yeah yeah I guess
yeah yeah but it wasn't directly like
Jamie didn't introduce me to will but
Jamie had a Comedy Festival called
laughapalooza that uh Will Smith's
company Overbrook saw me at that Comedy
Festival and gave me a holding deal at
the time what they were called and kind
of signed me to Will's company which
then I got to meet will you know a few
months later after getting that
opportunity in Atlanta at La for palooza
um
and then that's when will and I's
relationship uh began when I was about
16 years old so it's like I met Jamie
when I was 15 and then I met will when I
was 16. it's hard to think of many more
greater multifaceted entertainers than
Will Smith and Jamie Foxx man that's
what I'm saying like they they trained
me like and it's it's so crazy because
two of the nicest human beings you would
ever want to meet like never seen like
it's what you see on camera is that's
who they are you know what I mean like
like walking a room everyone
gravitates towards them they they're
they're loud they they know how to have
a good time like that's just who those
guys are so I don't think I'm naturally
like that like I I I talked to Kevin
about that a lot like when I come in a
room I'm quiet Kevin Hart like like uh
he's one of those guys that like
they they're loud they're like everyone
loves them like I'm more like I'm in the
corner I'm watching I'm observing I know
how to be that I can you know I can joke
with the best of them and get as much
attention and stuff but I'm I'm a little
more reserved uh and that's like to
finally answer your question in a very
long-winded way like the things I
probably learned from Jamie is
I observed him so much that
he's such a great Storyteller I've
stolen all of the tricks of when he can
get everybody around the table and tell
the story he's he's such a great
impromptu type of guy I could sit down
at a piano and you know sing a song and
get everybody like I know all of those
tricks and I'll probably learn that from
him you know what I mean just watching
how to you know Captivate a room in a
very jovial manner uh no matter what's
going on but uh man yeah he's and just
his his his thespian muscle is so strong
you know what I mean and I think from
whether he's being a silly character
he's being something that's so tuned in
uh and understanding the subtleties and
really embodying you know all of his
characters I learned a lot of that from
him as well too and will so you describe
Willis you're mentoring you from 16
years old yeah the thing I learned from
him is hard work and and really like
obviously I've heard he said this quote
so many times like I may not be the most
talented person in the room but I
guarantee you I work the most challenges
in the room or or have also heard him
say I'm you know I may not be the most
talented person in the room but I'll be
the hardest worker in the room uh and he
just
if you want something
he's not gonna stop until he figures it
out you know and he dedicates himself in
that manner
you know when this job is done he's
gonna
stop where everybody else is going to go
to sleep he's gonna go work 10 more
hours to either perfect that craft or on
to the next thing and I saw that at you
know as a teenager I'm like okay that's
how you get it that's what I'm gonna do
I'm if you're not sleeping I'm not
sleeping you know and it'd be times like
up in the studio all night and then
being on set early in the morning and
you just you're so grateful and
appreciative of the opportunity that you
want to be the best you could possibly
be
correct any of the errors in your ways
when you're a young man you're 16 years
old you've got a perspective yeah
he thought I mean every I mean before I
met will I didn't know how to
even musically I know how to rap 16 bars
I didn't know what that was like I knew
I knew music counting you know what I
mean but I didn't know a verse
specifically a rap verse was supposed to
be 16 bars and I think that culture
might have had just started to happen
because everybody wasn't writing 16 bars
and 80s you know what I mean sometimes a
song would be seven verses or sometimes
you know like people would just but I
feel like they were there in the 90s
they're beginning this uh infrastructure
of songwriting uh obviously most
choruses and hooks are about eight bars
uh and then therefore
you had to have a hot 16 double that was
your verse and will taught me how to
write because I was just writing he
would give me a beat or I get a track
and I would just write and just memorize
it and then be like oh well let me spit
this for you and he's like you need some
infrastructure around that he's like you
got some good stuff there so even as you
know simple as something like that is
but then he also just life ways man I
learned a lot about
Integrity character
um obviously perseverance from him and
then stuff that he went through as a
teenager he passed on to me and even I
didn't listen but I learned you know he
went broke you know at 19.
um after winning a Grammy and having a
platinum album
just spending it all on cars and living
fast he did I think my first check was
somewhere from him like 150 200 000 and
I went and bought uh the exact same
Range Rover he had and he's like I'm the
biggest movie star in the world like I'm
he's got millions I got a hundred and
fifty thousand dollars and I went and
bought a Ranger he told me don't do it
he's like man he's like I don't do that
like you gotta there's other things to
do with that money and this is from the
person who gave it to me
um
and he was right I totaled that Range
Rover six months within having it and
ended up having to move back to my mom's
house probably a year later because
thinking that you know all I'm signed to
Will Smith the opportunities but you
don't like that's money that you're
supposed to survive on those everything
that you know uh that was a time I I
wrote uh and created a television sitcom
three wheels company called Loose Cannon
and it was like me in a military school
a teenager in a military school thinking
they was going to get picked up we got a
six episode commitment Will Smith the
executive producer Quincy Jones is on
set like everything Stan Lathan is the
director of the pilot like everything
I'm like oh I'm set
the entire network of the WB makes a
shift and they don't pick up the show so
it's like I thought I was I was and it's
so funny I didn't ever even think about
these correlations the one of the
executive producers and writers was
Bentley Kyle Evans who's a writer and
creator of Jamie Foxx at our my time
slot was scheduled to come on my show
was gonna air right after the Jamie Foxx
Show so I was like it was all together
and it didn't happen and you howled at
that point 19. same age will was when he
had to refigure it out I think we shot
it when I was 18. uh but 19 is when they
let me know that it wasn't it wasn't
gonna move forward probably one of the
biggest heartbreaks in my life I
probably I cried for days
uh because I didn't you know that's the
thing when you you think you're you've
arrived
uh and then it snaps from under you and
there's no plan
I had nobody there even the people that
is going to be all right I didn't
believe them like I was like I was just
on the Warner Brothers lot but you know
in my Range Rover and you know like I I
saw the millions I saw me being the
biggest young star in the world
everybody was rocking with me into
everybody's gone like that
and it was just uh and it wasn't like
they abandoned me it was more like
everybody had to move on to their next
thing I had to be the one to figure it
out so that was uh that was probably one
of my greatest life lessons that will
even taught me in directly I mean
because he was warning me the whole time
uh and he held me down you know
time and time again since then you know
I mean it was uh
it you know I wouldn't have got Drumline
if it wasn't for him it was wasn't it
like I said it wouldn't have my first
record deal if it wasn't for him so it
was I I truly it's funny
I can get a little esoteric real quick
but I I have this when it comes to like
akashic records and and you know energy
I feel like you're placed in certain
it's it's the the law of synchronicity
like I feel like certain things just
happen
uh because they are constantly happening
there's certain energies that just are
attracted to each other
and I for whatever reason
people like Will Smith
Jamie Foxx like they're throughout my
career
they're always there they're always even
when they're not like we may not speak
every day we make but they we always
connected like even the same thing like
you know I call Kevin Hart my best
friend of me like it's just like we've
all since day one even when we're not
trying to be connected we're connected
like we're doing projects together we're
we're thinking of like he might he might
create a car show and I would create a
car show he has a restaurant I have a
restaurant like it's not like it looks
like competition but it's like oh no
like we just we're on the same frequency
like we're just we just operate the same
and those people kind of attract each
other they attract each other like and I
think that's like when people talk about
like secret societies and I think it's
like it's not it's not like this formed
meeting it's just like like-minded
individuals like people who operate on
the same frequency they they there
doesn't have to be this written rule
book it's just like oh no we intuitively
this is we we move like this we
gravitate towards certain things and
it's it's unfortunate because people who
operate in low frequency that it's the
same way and it's like you know you you
I was like damn that person not can't
can't catch a break it's like Ah that's
because they're living in that frequency
that well does that frequency look and
feel like it's slow it's thick it's
heavy blame yeah yeah victimization is
anger it's it's it's you know what I
mean it's like one of those things where
jealousy yeah all of that said like it
and it's unfortunate because of people
who operate in it they don't know that
they're in it
and it's almost like they they almost
desire that and they feel like they have
to have angst and anger to to get their
point across like man you know you're
doing so much more damage to yourself
uh and you're digging yourself Deeper by
pointing fingers at people who were on a
completely different frequency and they
don't even hear you and you're you're
clouding up your existence
instead of just like
stepping out of that frequency
you were the youngest ever staff writer
right 17 years old yeah I think I mean
unless somebody's beat it before like I
think TV history yeah I think
because working on Keenan and kelbridge
by the way was massive in the UK yeah
yeah I mean again
two of the most beautiful people I've
ever experienced uh specifically Keenan
Keenan is like my brother like my our
mothers are like best friends yeah like
um
he they they gave me the opportunity
because they were kids too and I started
off doing warm-up in the you know kind
of entertaining the the studio audience
when you know they're moving the cameras
around and stuff and people are like yo
that kid is something more entertaining
than what's going on on stage so they're
like he has a voice so do my management
you know Michael Goldman is still my
manager to this day he's still Keenan's
manager like Keenan actually I feel like
I don't know if Keenan introduced me to
because Keenan would hang out in the
comedy clubs
and I was in awe of him because he's
Keenan from Kenan and kale and we're in
some he's a few years older than me but
I'm like he's doing what I want to do so
we were kind of you know catch each
other and I would you know I wouldn't
jock him too much but I'd be like ask
him questions and stuff so one night his
manager came to um
to The Improv on Melrose with and I was
doing stand-up and you know they
produced Keenan and Kel and all that and
all that stuff so they gave they allowed
me to do the warm-up job and then from
there I'm in so I'm like you know I was
like yo we should write something so I
went to Keenan wrote a couple episodes
and he you know he was like yeah let's
do it I remember we wrote one episode
with uh
Keenan had a crush on Tamiya at the time
like like he was like well if we all had
a crush on Tamia but he really liked you
know the singer to me and I was like yo
let's write an episode about your crush
out to me and when you get to me on the
episode and it worked you're like like
we got to Mia she was in the show I was
like this is amazing like you mean I can
write something that actually happens
like I was literally like I was like
Harry Potter with the pin like like I
couldn't um I couldn't believe that I
could write something in my mind and it
would actually come into fruition uh in
that beginning so I just began writing
everything and I figured it out and they
hired me as a staff writer for a bunch
of different Nickelodeon shows uh 17 18
years after 17 yeah Jesus because I
think I wrote we wrote the Tamia thing
probably when I was like 16. and then so
by the time I was 17 I had like an
official job and then I started writing
my own stuff and then hence I wrote my
own television show that I would later
then pitch to Will Smith you know in
that same time when you're 22 years old
which is the the Nick Cannon show right
well no remember I said the the Loose
Cannon shows that didn't get the big
lesson I learned that I was still a
teenager then so but it's the way I got
back on my feet after Loose Cannon
didn't get picked up I then wrote my own
show for Nickelodeon which is
interesting because I was so I did that
out of
to be honest I wasn't even
proud or even I kind of did that out of
just like
I don't have nothing else to do
so let me create and produce my own show
because I felt I was at a low point I
was 19 and you know how this game
sometimes if it doesn't work they'll
spit you out like that was my shot like
I was like oh
I had
I was signed to Will Smith I had it was
the Protege of all of these big
comedians I had you know hundreds of
thousands of dollars worth of holding
deals with Networks usually that you
only get that shot once so I was like
damn I blew my wad at 19. like I gotta
go get a regular job now like that's
like that's what I was thinking like I
was gonna go back to hustling in the
streets and but it was
I was like all right well maybe it's
nickel I I was doing Nickelodeon so I
still got the relationships maybe I'll
just ride a kids show you know but I was
thinking I was about to be the next Will
Smith the next Jamie Foxx
all right I gotta go do children's
television and
through that I exercise these muscles as
a writer as an executive producer and
even like now like
I didn't I didn't have you know the
foresight to know how powerful you know
Children's Entertainment is how it's one
of the most dominating forces to be able
to entertain families that you know I
utilize in every aspect of my business
now I used to look at Nickelodeon as
like
preschool you know what I mean but I
didn't know that they were the billion
dollar conglomerate of you know
Nickelodeon Disney like I didn't
understand that then because I was in it
um so yeah I created the Nick Cannon
show for Nickelodeon
you know garnered a massive youth fan
base through through that when I look at
you being 22 years old writing this then
it Cannon show you being 17 writing for
Keenan and Kel I go like where did you
get the repetitions like where did you
get the skill from and if I was to if
you if I had like a a baby Nick Cannon
here yeah and I had to do something to
give him the skills that you had at 17
where you're writing hilarious things
where did where does that skill come
from
I think stand up to be honest stand up
because
writing my own jokes from 11 years old
and then by the time I'm 12 13 I'm
seeing deaf Comedy Jam Comic View I'm
seeing all of these things happen
and I'm watching these individuals
become their own intellectual properties
becoming their own business becoming
their own producers one thing about
stand up you have to write direct
perform promote Market all by yourself
it's a one-man show so I think by the
time I had whole no skills at like 15
16.
I knew how to do it I knew how to write
a script I knew how to write a great
joke I knew how to you know hours of
sitting in libraries and figuring out
words hearing stories like all of that
stuff was starting to pay off uh and I
knew like I just zoned in like you kind
of like again like when you know this is
my space this is my flow
you operate in your gift so I think just
you know trial and error as well too but
like I just figured it out you know what
I mean like this is what
is a gift that I have so I'm gonna
continue to operate in it they say
you're gonna put in 10 000 hours to
become a master or something yeah and
actually when I run the numbers I go
listen you started at 11 yeah and then
you wrote your own show at 22. that's
more than a decade yeah of repetitions
in the gym yep and then even and to me
then even then I was still just getting
started you know what I mean like again
the beauty of like even Nickelodeon like
even I I mean it was because I think the
Nick Cannon show was I was from I did it
from like age I started 19 and it ended
right when I turned 22.
um
I was a baby I looked like I was 15 like
everybody thought I was much younger
than how I even was so you know that's
when everything else from like Drumline
and my music career began and I was a
baby then too and then so
it just like I said I lived so many
lives and learned so many lessons early
on that even as I said here before you
today I'm like I'm still just getting
started like I still got still got so
many more movies that I got to do I
still got so much more music I got to
produce I still got so many more
television shows I gotta write so like
uh a few kids come to you there and they
say Dad how do I become
the master of my craft how do I become
the top of my industry not only have you
become the top of your industry in many
facets but you've been around people
that have got to the top of the industry
so the things you point out and the
similarities and the people that get
there what are those similarities if I'm
your kid and I come to you and say Dad I
wanna I wanna get to the top of the
industry what's the advice you give to
them
do it I think especially now it's as
simple as that sounds
that's what it is today like
do it and stick to it like don't give up
like do it efficiently do it because
this is don't try it if you try it
it's not gonna work if you do it
like that's even like even when people
always talk to me about acting like how
do you know or become a great actor
do it like it's not like it's not
believe it it's not uh acted you gotta
actually every embody every aspect of it
like do it as if there's no other option
like if you try something that's you
sticking your foot in uh if you believe
it you're kind of like I think I yeah
like okay but when you do it when you
live it when you operate in it where
there's no other option of like like you
know it's like it's some people who like
you know they play basketball and then
somebody's like oh no they they're a
basketball player you know what I mean
like there's some people who who
train or tried a box you're like no
that's a boxer you know what I mean like
they embody it they live it you gotta
and that's what my and even with my own
kids I'm like all right what do you just
naturally do we're just swag naturally
at why naturally
because it's like some of my kids are
just natural athletes they're physical
build
their what they gravitate towards and
then all right I'm gonna water that I
must I'm a I'm gonna cultivate that seed
and that's what because they have fun at
it then there's something on my kids
that are just like natural musicians
that just gravitate towards the piano
like they just they have fun on it yeah
and then it's like okay I'm gonna I'm
gonna help you with that what is the fun
Mata well I mean that's that's the
that's the battery like that's and
that's what if they ever lose the fun at
least for me like when it's no longer be
fun becomes fun and why are we doing it
you know are you doing it for money are
you doing it for like no you got to do
it because you enjoy it I find that fun
part so important but a lot of the time
people don't appreciate it and I love
your your reference of the battery
because a lot of people will be
orientated because they come from tough
upbringings to go what's going to make
the most money yeah and what I love
about what you said about the fun thing
is ultimately well it's my belief that
the thing that'll actually make you the
most money is the thing that you can
Master anything that you can Master is
the thing that you can do for 11 years
exactly which is the fun thing exactly
it's like I always say uh
money doesn't make you happy happy makes
you money
and then it goes to the concept of happy
money or good money because there's
definitely
the opposite of there's bad money in
their sad money
be and I've seen so many people live in
that frequency
sad money
like
like stingy
fear that people only want you for your
money loneliness loneliness in this big
Glass Castle by yourself
you got all the money in the world like
we we know those entertainers you know
what I mean like man they they put
themselves in this this Glass Tower
and everybody could see him
and they hate that everybody could see
them
and they're so lonely
and it's like
they got more money than they know what
to do with and then everything becomes
about a transaction hmm like
and you can see they have the biggest
yacht in the world
most Diamond studded watch ever and
they're miserable
and it's like that's sad money that's
and it becomes bad money you know what I
mean like they're making and it's it's
vindictive they're they're not honest
they get it in a way they're like man
how do you sleep at night like the music
industry is filled with bad money
and I've I've seen people they take
advantage like it's literally designed
in these contracts that's why I never
really wanted to be I didn't want to
thrive in it once I saw it I'm like oh
it's so manipulative it's about is one
person robbing another Robin another
Robin another and it's like that's not a
fun industry to be in like clearly
there's some people who figure it out
but even as a as a music executive I'm
like I don't I don't want to operate in
dishonesty I don't want to operate in
manipulation and it's just like that
entire industry is designed off of that
and but it's it's ways to you know Farm
few between but you can operate with
happy money and good money because the
crazy thing specifically about music it
brings so much joy to the world
that the industry shouldn't be in a low
frequency place like everybody should be
able to thrive and win and provide for
their families but there's a lot of
people who aren't musically inclined who
aren't musically talented who don't know
how to have happy uhness with music that
latch on
and control the artists and then
therefore they run the industry and they
operate on a lower frequency of like
you know I'm going to control your your
intellectual property and I'll make more
money off of it than you did even though
you made it from such a pure and happy
place there's a balance
it was a balance act or or a I don't
know a conflict between being selfish
enough that you you get on and you get
what you deserve but being generous and
kind enough so that you can stick around
and yeah
do you think about that the beauty of
narcissism
I I am uh that balance I am a narcissist
I I believe there's the balance of
narcissism
um
because you can go to you can go to an
extreme of narcissism and becomes
dangerous it becomes
uh maniacal becomes uh uh where you can
be a psychopath way or you're an a
sociopath where you have no empathy
that level of narcissism is unhealthy
that's to the extreme of these the
Spectrum but uh the balance of
confidence
of self-love of there's no other option
but me I am the I'm him you know like
LeBron James is him you know Kobe Bryant
him Michael Jordan him Michael Jackson
him you know Mike Tyson him you know
like all the mics you know the uh Will
Smith is him Chris Rock is him Jamie
Foxx is him you know and he uh Mariah
Carey is her Mary J Blige is her Beyonce
is her you know like all of those people
know that there is there will never be
another them
on the planet
and that is worth its weight in gold so
you have to have a level of self-love
self-promotion self-dedication all the
self is the key word the common word and
all of these things you have to love
self you have to know self not so much
that you hurt others or you think less
of others it's not because that's people
like oh you think you're better than
everybody else I don't care about
everybody else like it's not I don't
think I'm better than y'all I'm me like
in that to to a point it's it's a fine
line because you don't want to
disrespect anyone you still want to have
compassion you still want to have
empathy you still want to enter the
space of gratitude but this is my show
this is my party this is my this is my
block
that you you have to that's where that
success lies because without these
narcissists we wouldn't have you know
electricity we wouldn't have iPhones we
wouldn't have great music we wouldn't
have great like the director of the
movie is the director for the reason
he's the boss he knows he's the he
knows his vision is the one that
everyone else has to align with to make
a great film was there a point in your
career where you realized that you
needed to change in some way to get what
you deserved and to get what you're
worth
ah nah I don't think so really I had to
learn lessons because you're 15 I see
you coming up I go He's Got Talent yeah
I could you know get him to sign a bad
contract yeah I can take his money yeah
that's like I've learned I've learned
all of those lessons
um and people have tried to forewarn me
and stuff like that but uh
the thing I think the beauty that you
know the the aura that everybody's seen
is that's been consistent it's what you
do with it you know I've never let no
one put out my Flame you know it's it's
constantly burned for
the type of individual that I want to be
that I
you know the my purpose
um
so you know we all have trials and
tribulations
uh I you know you got to learn how to
Bob and weave but you're still the the
fighter in which you're supposed to be
you know like the whatever made you jump
in the ring from that day one
you're going to cultivate those skills
you know I mean you may be a defensive
fighter and that's how you win your
fight sometimes then you know uh you but
early on in your career you know you are
a puncher you know then you had to be
more of a thinker you know but at the
end of the day you're still a fighter so
I think guys whatever I I am I still
have this desire in me to to be a winner
I have this desire in me to to beat the
odds to some there's something about
like when someone tells me I can't do
something or tells me no I'm that fuels
me and it's been that way since
day one since you know my my 80d since
my anti-authoritarian behavior like it's
just like I'm gonna push through I'm
gonna persevere I'm gonna do what I want
and I'm not gonna let Society or
individuals tell me I can't
22 years old you start writing well done
out yeah you start writing at that point
I think it you you then self-fund the
pilot yeah at 25 years old yeah probably
before that because I self-funded in
2004.
so that might have been I might have
been 23 uh and again I had just seen
some success with film and music and
um I just started I was kind of one of
those guys that Drumline was out and
I had you know my album and stuff so
people but I was still doing stand-up
and I was like everybody's like oh he
does so many things and he hosts it and
I had a a deal with
you know Viacom at the time obviously
they had Nickelodeon and then you kind
of like graduated from Nickelodeon go to
MTV so I was in that stage of developing
things for MTV uh and they didn't
understand what I wanted to do when I
was saying that I want to get all my
comedian friends together and all my
rapper friends together and we just like
do improv and play games and they're
like we don't get it so I was like all
right so I rented out one of the comedy
clubs that me and my guys would normally
frequent uh got some cameras together
uh I think I man I want to say it was
somewhere around like a hundred thousand
dollars that I put into like that night
uh promoted it had everybody come out
you know got some beautiful people to
stand around and look beautiful and you
put a hundred thousand dollars of your
own money into the pilot yeah to show
MTV yeah and then uh once we put it all
together you know edited creating logos
showed it to them and they're like oh we
get it now but you know I had by then I
created the intellectual property had
you know copyright and patented the name
of wilding out uh the logo so when it
was time to negotiate when I knew that
they wanted the show
we we had the you know the the strong
side of the table because we knew they
wanted it and we had already created it
and that instantly was like oh this is
the business model that I want to
continue to operate under most people
don't figure that out until much later
in life if at all by owning their IP is
key to getting the value that they
deserve for their work yeah well now I
feel like everybody knows the Secret's
out you know I mean when you look at
YouTube and yeah you know the ability of
that we could create great content you
know for a very cost effective amount
like you know wilding out that probably
wouldn't cost me a hundred thousand
today yeah you know because everything
back then to get a cameraman yeah that
was a couple thousand dollars you know
what I mean and you know doing my own
thing now yeah like exactly
um yeah everybody knows now to if they
create it and they'll come and then you
build your fan base on your own and then
you can sell it to a larger corporate so
I feel like that model is being you know
kind of a little bit look at Mr Beast
you know I mean like I'm so I'm so
jealous so all like everything that he's
doing at 24 25 like I was trying to do
back there but there was no there was no
YouTube I got I was doing this you know
on VHS you know yeah but uh
I love it you know what I mean I love
watching what even I mean the beauty of
my brand now is what I started in 2004
is still going strong and probably more
popular today going into 2024. it's
crazy you know what I mean you're about
to film series 21. we just filmed 21 so
we're going into 22 and 23. I figured
out a model now how to do two seasons in
one so
um most shows don't last for a season
let alone 21 Seasons yeah I think my
goal is 25.
so
what happens at 25 it'll be the 20th
year
25. do I gracefully bow out is 25 25
Seasons like do I hand it off to
somebody else to like I'll probably be
getting close to 50 by then like
I can't while out forever no no I gotta
stop at some point I think I'm probably
too long in the tooth now I mean that's
why I even created the old school new
school it's funny
everybody when I first created it all
little while and out girls all of the
cast members all of the crew were older
than me and it was weird that everybody
was listening to this kid
tell them what to do and like even the
my OG's like you know Katt Williams and
you know a lot of the guys who are on
the show and right Chris Spencer and
Daryl Heath like these guys were guys
that I looked up to uh that were on my
show
uh and now I'm the overhead and I got
all of these other young kids like the
DC Young flies and everyone I'm like
it's so crazy to have the same brand and
I literally grow up on you know like I
remember being a kid trying to get these
comedians to listen to me and like what
do you know and now I'm the guy telling
with the platform yeah so
give me a few into into that platform
that you have and that you've built the
entertainment company that sits behind
it the talent that you have because it's
not so obvious to people yeah you know
people kind of probably think okay while
they're now he's he does this whatever
he's the host whatever but when I did
the research on the company that you've
built behind it it's a pretty it's a
huge business behind all of that and
you're involved in a lot of things yeah
I mean there's so many aspects of it I
mean I I truly look at it as a blessing
I'm so grateful for it because it was on
a job job training I didn't say I didn't
think wild and out would be the billion
dollar conglomerate that it is because I
was just creating a show to give my
friends jobs because Kevin Hart needed
money to pay his rent
like because he's being like it's just
real you know like we were trying to
create something because I was the only
one that was you know seeing some
success out of our you know our
generation at the time and I was like oh
let's Let Me Shine a Light on these
dudes that are way funnier than me that
are way more talented than me you know
like uh and then I built a business out
of it of incubating of
uh cultivating young Talent so much so
that when they're ready we we see Pete
Davidson go on to become one of the
biggest stars in SNL in a movie star we
we see same thing with like Mikey day
and Tara and kill him and you know uh
the Katt Williams and Kevin's to become
some of the biggest stand-up comedians
to ever tour the world like they they
got they you know they they feet wet
they they skills honed on one of the
toughest stages like if you look at what
wild and out is if you if you Excel and
survive there
you're going to be a star yeah because
you're in a this is The Godly this is
the combine this is the best of the best
in the grimiest of of this we're going
to test your insecurities we're gonna
test your anxiety and then
you succeed and you get the love from
people that you respect and then once
the industry sees that do whatever you
want so I I didn't
I couldn't have designed that but it
happened and I was like wow I didn't
know I was literally right I did we were
just in the trenches but it's like it's
so much so like we create an environment
that most entertainers are scared to
come to they're like man I don't want to
go a while now they're going to talk
about my mama are they going to talk
about my last Scandal or I don't know
how to rap her I'm not that funny off
the top of the head and it's like it's
intimidating so when you throw a kid in
there or whoever is in it and they Excel
they they've earned their stripes so now
they can walk into any room and like
yeah I was the man on wild and out and
now because it is a platform to propel
now you can go become a movie star now
you can go become a rapper or a singer
like so so that was really if I could
I'd be lying if I say I designed that
but yeah it became that and that's like
the blessing of God but then the
business behind it
you used to use the b word billion yeah
yeah I mean if you and it's I it's funny
I didn't even that was told to me after
they did all of the research and of you
know obviously what the IP is worth
because one I mean we're looking at 500
episodes of Television that alone
when you just do the math charge however
much you want to charge per episode what
that what you know and then
the
the careers that it's launched
and you know then go to where the money
really is in the actual intellectual
property so we have a tour that makes
millions
every year
um now even turning into a cruise line
you know the wild and wet like we have
restaurants that are being franchised
you know all over the country you know
we just expanded our our South Beach
location and on on Ocean Drive in Miami
um the the logo in itself the amount of
t-shirts where then we're probably uh
Paramount's number one uh selling yeah
Merchant uh t-shirt merchandise is that
everybody knows that wild and out logo
and it's it's on everything from
t-shirts to bikinis to underwears to
coffee mugs uh to toys uh it's things
like that that I was just trying to make
a cool t-shirt like I didn't think you
know for 20 something years people would
be buying wild and out t-shirts so stuff
like that that when and then even stuff
I never even thought of you know
we created wild and out before there was
a YouTube it's probably uh one of Viacom
if not V I think maybe The Daily Show is
probably right there but the biggest
digital brand that Paramount has
through Tick Tock YouTube you know I
feel like I think we might we're
somewhere north of 12 million YouTube
subscribers on the Wild and out page uh
12 million something subscribers on Tick
Tock seven million on Instagram and
that's just that's a TV show you know
what I mean when you think about it like
not the individuals who are on the TV
show yeah have even more followers this
is just the shows page so what you think
the brand is worth
I've heard different things I I mean
like I said when I initially when the
research back there was like a 1.3
billion but then that was years ago so
like I'm pretty sure it's grown because
now it's even more popular now so it's a
it's you know I try not to get caught up
in that because then I'm two things
happen like one I get in I start
gloating I'm like built this billion
dollar business and then the second
thing I was like Hey where's my billion
dollars like somebody owes me some money
like so I try not to get caught up in
that so like I I know I just know it's
very successful and I'm grateful that
it's still going I mean I can't wait to
find the next comedic Superstar can't
wait to find the next big rapper that
Grace is The Wild on stage what are the
other businesses or the business
ventures that aren't obvious that people
might not know about so you talked about
restaurants you sign Talent yeah
obviously wild and out brand is there
anything else going on that from the
business side of things that are isn't
obvious
specifically and wild out of everything
else everything
well I mean I've created incredible
entertainment uh in 2009 it was more of
a conglomerate where because I had
always had a record label but it was
separate from my television company uh
film a film I would produce the films
that I was in and stuff so I was like I
want everything
in-house I read that incredible
entertainment generated over 100 million
dollars in Revenue in 2009 and that was
I think that was just in our headphone
sales like because we did I had you I
did a headphone brand very similar to
Beats by Dre monster was the parent
company they did Beats for 300 and they
did Incredibles for a hundred dollars so
we were the more cost effective
headphones while Beats by Dre was
making all the noise we were quietly
making noise in Walmarts and the Radio
Shacks for selling an affordable product
that was pretty much the same product
except for we made ours uh affordable so
yeah just so that alone that was just in
consumer electronics that I would never
thought I was going to be uh you know
selling Electronics
um
so but yeah incredible and ultimately I
created a One-Stop shop that could be
everything from consumer products to
entertainment to so and it's been
thriving man it's been uh and it's kind
of I I guess my brand is somewhat known
of giving people opportunities uh and
finding that next
big things of where we're cultivators
we're curators we're uh incubators uh
and so a lot of the the content that
I've created
I found my niche I was going to say you
have a Simon kind of the entertainment
world but you're in fact just the Nick
Cannon of them yeah it's funny man
keilani is a um
me and Simon talk about that often
because I found her on America's Got
Talent on his show my show our show but
he wasn't paying attention you know what
I mean and it was like you know he was
focused on One Direction or whatever on
one of his other shows and I was like
you know kehlani came in
um and it was she was an amazing talent
she was and like I hate to say found
because she was already talented once
you get to America's Got Talent you're
already
proven you know uh and she was the the
lead singer for a group called Pop Life
which was put together I Believe by
Dwayne Wiggins from Tony Tony his sons
were in there too but she was clearly
the the star of this group and I
remember Piers Morgan uh was being an
as he does so very well
and he was he was telling a 15 year old
little chubby keilani uh to that she
should leave the group and the only way
that he would put her through and not
Buzz her off is if she left her band
because she was the talent clearly he
was right but like how do you put a 15
year old in that scenario and she stuck
to her guns and she said I'm not leaving
my brothers and everybody else on the
panel was like
we're gonna you know we we love that you
stuck to your gun so even though Piers
was being an ass
they put through they went all the way
through to uh
to the finale I think they performed
with Stevie Wonder on the finale as Pop
Life and then unfortunately you know
when you don't win life goes on she had
to go back home to Oakland and probably
met some hard times and I remember it's
funny
uh the father of her you know as we know
I knew as Gabby uh who also grew up in
that same music over and he called me
and said hey man you know that girl that
was on America's Got Talent she's
homeless now she's not doing so well I
was like what it's like yeah she's
you know not doing she's being a
teenager but like she needs help like I
didn't really know her background of you
know her father you know being murdered
when she was a child and a mother you
know uh dealing with substance abuse and
a lot of she has a very compelling story
of just the resilience of her and her
family and he they were explaining all
that and I was like yo give me your
information find who's our guardian and
kind of went and talked to the family
and say yo I'll move you to LA but first
we got to finish High School like the
one promise finish school I'll take care
of everything else a year later her
mixtape was nominated for a Grammy
so it's just like
just and you know so it's stuff like
that to where you know I was like
I put in the work to you know help her
out or tell Simon yeah you missed that
one you got a lot of other ones right
but you missed you you know you missed
that one and uh did you sign her uh see
that's the thing how I feel about
signing I don't I'm weird about that
I don't like signing people uh and
people everybody in my life is like
that's what you have to do I I would say
I didn't ask for anything I I
I was the uh impresario you know what I
mean I I funded scenarios because I
could so she didn't have to worry about
anything you know what I mean she had
uh roof overhead food on the table
anything she wanted studio time you know
we we figured it out I I introduced her
to you know the good people over at
Atlantic Records
uh and the rest is history
so hindsight's a wonderful thing yeah
yeah I didn't want no money from it you
know what I mean I do I do that for a
lot of people uh and it's created you
know me and Craig Coleman over at
Atlantic that's my man you know uh but
where a lot of people would
be you know kehlani would be signed to
them forever
I don't want that you know I mean I want
her to be able to provide
and do like I always tell everybody I
work with from the beginning
whether you make it or you don't make it
my life is still going to be the same
so I don't want anything from you but to
see you win I just want to see like I
don't but you could have I could there's
a lot of people and that that is their
business so where like I need my
percentage of every song that you write
from here on out because I found you I
discovered you I signed you my spirit I
don't sit well with my spirit
I uh
and that's this future Superstar show my
inner struggle when you watch it because
I'm on the show as well
I struggle with
signing these kids it's funny because we
go from City to City and I give
a local artist anywhere from five to ten
thousand dollars a city
and a lot of times that's what these
record labels are signing these kids up
for someone signed my publishing
away
when I was a teenager for ten thousand
dollars one of the biggest mistakes one
of the biggest lessons I've ever learned
so now I'm giving that ten thousand
dollars away to these kids and I don't
want nothing from you but to see you win
and that's me paying it forward that's
me correcting what this industry has
done to people
so
for so long so
I don't want if you want to sign with
Incredible that's your choice
that's I get you I you can sign to me if
you want to but I'm good like I almost
still be rich so I don't need anything
from you if you want to join the gang
let's go like you know there's benefits
and parts to be an incredible but
um
I don't I I it's a lot of people even
you know from my attorneys and people in
my my circle like man you gotta sign
these people how are you going How You
Gonna function how you going
allow your business to thrive if you
don't sign
well it's been working thus far so I
don't I don't wanna I don't like signing
people I don't like having ownership in
someone else's brand now we could be
collaborative we can write a song
together and we just split the
publishing we can you know
yeah it costs money to keep the lights
on you can use my studio yeah like and
you I get reimbursed you know down the
line when it's time but I'm not gonna
take something from you I'm not gonna
charge the artist like I said that's a
up concept that we just been
operating in and no one's ever corrected
it like why should we this is this is an
artist who's making brilliant art
and someone who had nothing to do with
it gets to own it forever in perpetuity
the this perpetuity
like like there's these terms and these
words that we just signed up for that is
just it's wrong but it's made a lot of
people a lot of money so they don't want
it to change but it has to change like
technology is making a change these next
Generations of people who have more
empathy and giving Spirits are gonna
allow it to change because I don't p i
don't believe people are are as
animalistic or are they're not they
don't have a Savage mentality like
and what's used to require I believe
we're more empathetic we're more
compassionate and it's starting to show
even in business I think you're right
though I think because of platforms
that middle man has less power than ever
so you say like oh maybe they're
becoming more empathetic maybe they have
no choice yeah because a Kalani or a you
or whatever now has all these platforms
where if you've got art and You've Got
Talent that's just gonna go viral yeah
and you're gonna have the followers yeah
on your account with and you own the
password exactly so they're going to
come with a different value proposition
is like oh I can introduce you to that
person I was telling people like
networking is stupid like like if you're
like focused on being the best you
they'll come find you like but there are
some people who made a lot of money
by networking that concept is like oh
this I know this person I can introduce
you to this
God bless you you know what I mean like
if that's how you like connecting I'll
get it but if we're really trying to get
the artist or the IP or the the genius
to the people
now
technology is doing it for us I have
this debate with my assistant all the
time because she tells me to network
more and I say to I say like my
networking is doing my thing yeah and
then you become a peacock or a magnet
versus me having to small talk in a room
for three hours exactly which I can't do
that I hate small talk in that maybe
we're just different type of individuals
yeah yeah yeah because there are other
people to be like your network is your
network yeah yeah I don't care who who I
know it's more about who knows me it's
it's I'm I'm gonna go over here and
figure it out and you're welcome to the
party like but I don't want to go to
your party like I don't want to hang out
with everybody dressed in white and got
on billion dollar watches I don't that's
not fun to me yeah like to each his own
but some people can do that yeah and I
and like I maybe because I've been in it
so long I've been to the white parties
before and wanted to show off and and
they were fun but like I'm at this point
like I don't I don't want to do that
that feels that feels like work to me
I'd rather be in a studio I'd rather be
with my children I'd rather be riding
somewhere uh and not to say that those
people don't do that as well I just like
that world is I I don't have a place in
it that's not where I could be my best
self I low-key though do Envy the people
that can do it and enjoy it and that can
be that Network and connect this person
to that one and just because it's an
energy that I just don't have I think as
an introvert I don't have that muscle to
like show up small talk my way to a
lunch with someone and yeah yeah
I'll tell everybody I'm an outgoing
introvert like like I am and that's what
me and Kevin Hart go back and forth
about all the time because he has that
gift
he walks in a room and lights it up you
know what I mean he know he knows this
person and this person and I'm like yo
that looks exhausting and this um that's
coming from a person who like my my
personal bandwidth is overloaded
constantly but my spiritual bandwidth I
keep like I don't I don't give everybody
my energy like and that's probably why I
am a little bit more subdued in rooms
that's why I may not go to every event
and most of the time if somebody asked
me to come something it's like nah I'm
good and it's not because
I just like my piece I just like being
with where I can be my authentic self
where I can be my best so I don't like
having to turn it on but I understand
when it's time to like I and it it's
award season you got you got to go do
this so you gotta like all right and I I
know how to do it with the best of them
but that's not who I naturally am
as you guys may know we are a sponsor of
this podcast and I'm a shareholder in
the company as someone that is on the go
pretty much 90 of the time I always
prioritize getting my workout in and for
me it's a non-negotiable working out
staying healthy and trying to optimize
my body so I can achieve the results
that I want but a new addition to my
lifestyle which complements my busy work
schedule and my tough workout schedule
is my prioritization of my rest and my
recovery I never quite knew how
important it was until I started my weep
journey to understand exactly what's
going on in my body and how to look
after my body whoop is a wearable health
and wellness coach that provides you
with the feedback and actionable
insights you need on your sleep your
recovery your training your stress and
your overall health and seeing this data
that we provide says made it 10 times
easier to understand what my body needs
for it to reach its optimal State
helping me to conquer those long days
and tough workouts without breaking down
see for yourself by searching
join.woop.com
CEO to get a three months free week
membership on me and I have a suspicion
you'll stick with it because I certainly
have and I don't stick with much as it
relates to wearable tech enjoy it and
let me know how you get on as you may
know this podcast is sponsored by huel
if you're living under a rock you might
have missed that and he'll has such a
wide range of products now but there is
a great way to try all of them this is
the huel best seller bundle perfectly
curated so that you can try all of the
favorite products and decide which ones
are your favorites the best seller
bundle has a range of meals and bars
including the iconic heel Shaker the pot
and a free t-shirt which if you've got
the free heel t-shirt you'll understand
how well that t-shirt fits I'm not just
saying that it really really is
phenomenal if you've heard me talking
about cure but haven't tried it for some
reason then this is a great option for
you to get to know the range and find
the product that works best for you I've
tried every single heel product in the
boardroom in the development
Laboratories and in my home and there's
a couple of products which have just
revolutionized my life because they meet
the requirements that I'm looking for so
if you're looking to try heal for the
first time and to get into it to join
the hooligan family I'd highly recommend
you try this out
he is old Nick and at
32 years old you got a diagnosis that
changed your life yeah
tell me for a super Loop like literally
pardon the plan with lupus
yeah man lupus nephritis specifically uh
in 2012 and here live in my dream life
you know married to
the most gorgeous beautiful super
talented person to ever step on the
planet literally my dream girl we got
two kids we're in Aspen I never like I'm
from from the hood I'm from the projects
you don't go to Aspen who are you
married to Mariah Carey
but it's like I'm in Aspen with my with
my wife uh and thinking I mean probably
some of the best shape of my life
go to boxing three times a week you know
what I mean got my own home gym in Aspen
yeah I mean like uh and I had the
weirdest pain in my uh in my right side
I'm like I'm thinking like a muscle
cramp or like like I'm gonna just jog
through it here I'm in high out uh you
know altitude
jogging in the snow thinking I'm gonna
do like it's my Rocky moment I don't
know what I was thinking uh and by the
time I got back to the house
passed out like and I didn't know like
like literally Mariah came in and found
me uh they called her you know rushed me
to
the ER in Aspen how did she find you I
was I don't know I was laid out like and
I I think everybody because you know I
think it was that bad because I had just
came from jogging in Aspen after like oh
he probably got altitude sickness you
know what I mean like I was just
dehydrated so that's what the narrative
we were going with so once I got to the
hospital like I just need some fluid IV
I'll be all right you know because that
happens because it happens on the ski
slopes people like my dumb ass was
jogging and up a mountain I'm probably
gonna pass out
um and I was only doing it to try to rid
this crap that I had I thought I could
like work it off
uh and then the longer I was in the
hospital they were like oh well maybe
you have a kidney stone
because there's something going on back
there and I was like no it wasn't a
kidney stone and you got the fluid
you're no longer dehydrated
all right well you know maybe we got a
kidney infection and then they wanted to
do a biopsy
and then through the biopsy
I think at the time it's kind of like
acute
kidney failure like it wasn't full like
I was I had caught it early enough to
where my kidneys didn't completely fail
and then they were and they found out
the reason why is that my immune system
was attacking my kidneys therefore the
my autoimmune condition Lupus and lupus
nephritis to where you know where your
immune system can get out of whack based
off of whether it's levels of stress uh
things that you're putting into your
body you know a lot of times it's not
hereditary they don't really know what
the cause of it is uh it's definitely
related to stress which I didn't think I
was stressed out but it's like obviously
there's various types of stress or
physical stress emotional stress but
this just can send your immune system uh
out of whack and therefore your immune
system then starts to
you know
self-destroy you know it starts to
attack the
whatever organs different people's lupus
attack different things mind uh
specifically where my kidneys uh which
then created a bunch of other stuff like
pulmonary embolisms and so like the
lupus started I started having these
flare-ups and it was doing a bunch of
stuff to my body and that if you don't
catch it you know in in control you
could lose your life pretty quickly so
it was a scary time I didn't understand
it uh but we got it in order you know
and even
I feel like I got a good hold on it now
but every once in a while it's a great
reminder that
health is wealth
health is currency health is the most
important thing uh next to time
that we possess and we we don't we can't
control the time we can control our
health we can control what you put in
your body you can control what you how
well you take care of yourself so
um my little pissed is my alarm clock
every morning
letting me know
you better do the right thing you better
drink your gallon of water you better
take your supplements you better you
know not eat too much sodium or process
they're like
just a a constant measuring stick to
keep me alive
how did that diagnosis change your your
life so if I was if I was in your life
at that moment yeah before that moment
and then during that moment you're
married you're you're still contending
with work and it changes it so much I
became a different person
both
you know um
certain things didn't matter anymore
other things matter too much you know uh
I started to overly value relationships
in time but then I that made me get rid
of relationships that were taking up
time and wasting my time
um
but it all became
I always felt like I had a ticking clock
but the ticking clock became more
apparent in 2012. uh that I gotta make
the most out of today because tomorrow
isn't promised my relationship with my
children
all of my children you know what I mean
like a lot of that all comes into play
to where like what are you going to do
with the time that you have on this
planet
what impact are you gonna make
so that's kind of that that's where in a
nutshell what it did
emotionally
if I'm if I'm Mariah at that time and
I'm dealing with a Nick that's
contending with this new diagnosis and
an uncertain future
yeah
yeah she was my rock man she was
um
she went hard you know probably probably
wouldn't even be honest probably
wouldn't be alive if it wasn't for how
hard she went you know
with the doctors with me my stubbornness
you know um she was the the perfect help
mate the perfect matriarch the perfect
mom the perfect wife in those scenarios
because granted she's who she is in
dealing with all the pressures of being
Mariah Carey but then uh being
loving enough to take on all of my stuff
uh and you know we it probably took a
toll
on us just because of the person I was
in my head and the struggles that I was
dealing with uh so I probably took a
toll on our relationship but it
definitely brought us closer together
the struggles you were dealing with
man just like was I gonna live
uh what was life all about
had I wasted my time up until this point
and if I get another shot what am I
gonna do
what type of am I going to be able to be
here for my children am I not going to
be able to be here for my children so
therefore what am I leaving them
uh what am I leaving the world when I
when I exit you know staring up at that
hospital bed or from the hospital bed
standing at the ceiling all alone when
everybody else is kicked out and you
gotta
you gotta just
you know be be face to face with your
higher power
asking all those tough questions
am I done you know uh a lot of people we
we don't do that because we get
caught up in the constant race of just
living day to day but it slowed down for
me on many occasions of like
it's just a rap he's almost out of here
um and I wasn't scared that's the crazy
thing when you get to that point where
you're like oh okay
I had a good run
were you happy I was in that moment when
you're looking up at the ceiling I was
content I wasn't scared
and it happened you know more than once
and even you know
it continues to like I'm probably
reminded of
my physical mortality
all the time
uh and when you're when you're not
afraid of dying
you focus on living
you know it's a it's a
anyone who's ever had a near-death
experience or anyone who've been in
those quiet places of
dealing with thoughts of afterlife and
what this current life was for you
uh you live the rest of your days
differently and
at least for you know a certain amount
of time until you're reminded again
um
but yeah man I I
would say I want that life
I've had I've lived several lives and I
won them all you know so it's like
I'm not a I'm not afraid to go like and
even all of the things that I I study uh
and have prepared myself for
it's you know one thing it's inevitable
we all got it's gonna happen to all of
us at some point and I think others just
deal with it better and it makes you
appreciate this life like I'm wanna when
it's all said and done I guarantee you
they're gonna be like yo he wrote that
to the wheels fell off like
like he got he got the most out of life
um and you know I'll be known for
smiling big uh loving hard you know and
you know what more can you ask for you
said you don't think you'd be here if it
wasn't for Mariah going hard do you
really believe she saved your life oh
absolutely
absolutely but I think that's what you
do uh
when you when you find a help mate when
you find
uh someone that you're in matrimony with
you know
you you go hard for him I feel like I
went hard for her and we'll still go
hard I lay down my life for her today
you know it's just that's what you do
it's just it's family it wasn't and I
just want to make it clear it wasn't
just that moment where you had to
contend with health and mortality it's
an ongoing conversation I was in and out
of the hospital I mean I was in the
hospital this past December you know uh
is not as frequent you know but and it's
just because I have the right doctors
and I'm hopefully doing the right things
now that it doesn't find me but you they
lupus you have what they call flare-ups
and it happens when
certain times of the year Seasons stress
uh and
some can be worse than others uh so
early on when I was trying to understand
it between like 2012 and 2016. I was in
the hospital like a couple of times a
year for instance of like three weeks to
a month just trying to figure it out
so those and like I said the flare-ups
would cause things from everywhere from
like blood clots pulmonary embolisms
inflammation and not have the ability to
walk to
kidney failure organs not doing what you
know they're supposed to do so you know
I had blood clots in my lungs and my
heart like things that would have
normally killed other people you know
the doctors would be like man I don't
understand how you didn't get affected
by that you know
having to do you know infusions that are
you know similar to chemotherapy and you
know my hair falling out stuff like that
like uh it's been quite the journey but
you know you gotta you gotta you never
know how strong you are just being
strong is the only option you just got
to push through
crazy how that changes perspective
and you as you say all of that having
not been through that myself yeah I'm so
hungry to understand the perspective
that it's given you because I don't want
to have to go through that to get the
person I don't wish it on anyone yeah
yeah I mean it's funny you say that
sitting there 30 years old yeah and this
is why it's ah but man you know what I
used to do even before
I was diagnosed with lupus it's funny um
and I don't even just put on my heart
but I
I knew it helped my perspective
every month uh
started off every month and it started
to be like once a quarter but I would go
to Saint Mary's Children's Hospital
and read books give toys
uh and really just hang out
um
and I wouldn't do it for publicity or
it was just it was a reset button for me
to put everything in perspective because
you would see these children
who
were
dealing with life altering sometimes
just chronic and detrimental disease
and they would have these Smiles on
their faces and they would just
be so happy
and like hooked up the tubes and I'm
like man if they're having a good day
I have no complaints I can I'm gonna
walk out of here
in good health and this I would I you
know I was still on the board of St
Mary's children's hospital and I did a
lot of work with like the Children's
Miracle Network and stuff I probably
started that in like
I was in my mid-20s
um
and it just
I almost want to say help prepare me for
the mindset of when I have my own
diagnosis I mean ultimately ended up
losing my own child you know even a
decade later after that it was like
you got to enter these spaces with
empathy with compassion
because then that reminds you that we're
all human that and make the most out of
this day because you might not be able
to walk tomorrow you might not you might
take a loss of
someone that you thought was going to be
there forever that you thought was going
to outlive you and
you're talking you're talking about Zen
yeah yeah and it's like and moving so
fast
if you you start to regret like man I
didn't
I didn't do what I should have done in
that moment so
it's a constant reminder you know what I
mean and I think perspective perception
a lot of those things help us daily
you dealt with the loss of your your son
at just five months old due to brain
cancer yeah
something that no parent ever conceives
yeah as a possibility
and so I it's
it's a
it's an awful Club to be a member of uh
but I I can understand
where
it's um
it's hard to relate
it's I've learned a lesson in that to
where when other people are going
through stuff never use the word I
understand
because you don't you know
um
it's
it's just
it's so many things that go through your
mind of
you know even in even in a short period
of time
of five months
the the level of pain the level of guilt
the level you know like that one
struggles with because
you know you think like oh well
that child would have got to Crow this
see five years or 25 years or you know
you start asking all of these questions
that of Concepts you just you struggle
to understand so when you go through it
you kind of have to just
create this
fog that protects you but at the end of
time like again you just got to keep
pushing through and then you know
they do say Time Heals all wounds I
think you know you feel
it's just something that you you'll
never completely heal from but you live
in in your you learn to operate and you
you learn to smile you learn to be
appreciative if you're a jovial and
optimistic person like I am you know you
push through but you know that pain
never leaves you did you have space and
time to grieve his his loss
grieving is forever
it's not a time period like that's what
I was talking about like it's not about
times like that's something you're going
to grieve daily
and grieve it daily oh absolutely and I
think we all and then any loss you know
what I mean and it's learning how to
turn your grief into
purpose learning how to turn your grief
into
a badge of honor in your character
um because we all experience it we all
it's
instead of because sometimes grief can
turn into anger and sadness I don't
think that's what it's meant for uh I
think that may be the innate feeling but
when you can turn
oh man I lost my grandmother I lost my
mother so therefore it makes me more
compassionate to women
uh I lost my child so that makes me
appreciate other children
um I lost my father I never knew my
father so that makes me want to be a
greater father you know like when you
learn that that pain or that grief can
actually turn and make you
uh fulfill you in in with strength in
those spaces that once were empty
I think that then allows you to figure
out why
we're here in the first place if I was
to fly on the wall in your household
during that period what would I have
seen
a lot of Silence from me at least
uh when I'm dealing with stuff I get
real quiet
I don't talk
I keep to myself
therefore that makes the whole room
uncomfortable because everybody else has
to be quiet especially someone like me
who is loud you know especially in my
own home
when it becomes Eerie silence
so and you know it's internalizing it's
thinking it's taking the time it's being
appreciative of
of the time of the of the energy
but uh you see a lot of love a lot of
compassion but a lot of Silence
we have a closing tradition on this
podcast where the last guest leaves a
question for the next guest not knowing
who they're going to leave the question
for and they write it into the diary I
don't get to read it beforehand Jack
does he just checks it's not completely
crazy so okay here we go
okay I'm gonna have a guess
okay so I've got this thing then what's
the next word
okay this thing you're upset about
you're hanging on to
that you've been
ruminating about
resenting
what would happen if you just let it go
if you just never thought about it again
and let it go did you did you interview
my therapist
as much as I may like internalize things
and like
over analyze because I I would say I'm a
perfectionist on one and I'm also
fly by the seat of my pants Carefree
whatever happens happens type of person
so in therapy
I have to figure out which box I'm gonna
put my issues in
because there are the ones like over
analyze about and you know those usually
have to deal with like my children and
you know
relationships based off of like wanting
to be the best me in that space uh
and then there's the stuff that was like
I can't control that like whatever like
and those are the things that keep
people up at night and you just lost how
many millions of dollars or like I don't
care like like uh so to answer that very
uh
insightful question
um
nothing would happen like like I I it
would be very similar to
and that's what I've learned like the
the things that I over analyze
stress about
uh
usually the same result happens when I'm
carefree and
don't really put too much emphasis on
the issue but is there anything that you
could let go of that you think would
have a positive impact on your life
just let it go hmm
not really I mean because I'm kind of
that type of person like I don't let
things there's not an idea or a
resentment or a grudge or a maybe maybe
before you know I think I've I'm kind of
doing the work so I kind of know that
about myself but I'm also I've never
been one to take life seriously like
that and it's almost to my detriment you
know sometimes or like I need to take
something seriously like my health or
you know even some certain relationships
but
um I used to care what people think
thought about me you know because we're
in an industry of that we'd be lying if
like I still pay attention to what
people say about me but I don't I don't
allow it to
you know make decisions for me so I
don't deal with that anymore
um
and that's why I said now I'm probably
at this space to where even if it's the
small things
you know I kind of
know how to compartmentalize even for
the moment like I spent enough time on
that you know we got to move off it as a
father I mean I'm pretty sure I'm gonna
learn so many more lessons uh
with all of my children having to
they're all gonna deal with things in a
completely different fashion so
hopefully whatever their Hang-Ups are
don't necessarily become my Hang-Ups
because I know as a parent we do that
you know that's that's the compassion of
parenting uh
you got any kids no yeah yeah that's the
thing they don't tell you that their
problems become your problems how'd you
mean immediate whatever they have an
issue is now your issue from the spot if
they got diarrhea you got diarrhea like
like if they're crying you're crying if
they can't sleep you can't sleep and it
happens forever if they have a problem
getting in if they're stressing about
school you're stressing about their
school I'm right there and I'm about to
have kids yeah I imagine I've got a
partner we're settle down we've got a
place together we're talking about it
what advice have you got for me do it
yeah
I mean but that it's because it's what
life is all about like it's like
um you're gonna do it the way you want
to do it like I said the one other thing
I never and me having so many kids I'm
like man so many 12 12 kids yeah yeah so
I'm the artist is 12. yeah the oldest 12
year old twins
yeah and every all of their problems
they come they're my problem that's a
lot of problems yeah like it's not and
they're not they don't care about their
siblings problems you got to deal with
this one right now dad my chameleon has
an eye infection we have to rush to the
vet now like what it's a lizard all
right like other things and it's life or
death the chameleon can't die like or to
you know
you know that's is that one's fun and
silly but you know taking us back to Zen
and what we were talking about like
those were my issues those are my
problems those brought out things that I
never thought I would ever have to deal
with because as I watch my
five-month-old sit here and deal with
life
so it's like their problems become your
and what you think about
um
for me and I was thinking about this
this morning you're just grateful for
always like wow
it's quiet everybody's good let's
Embrace this moment uh and then you know
when problems are issues challenges
obstacles arise we all deal with it as a
family
and that you know so that's you you you
appreciate life for you become a problem
solver you become an individual who
every day wakes up and overcomes
whatever challenges in front of them
sounds like a lot of a big weight to
carry it's but it's life it's fun it's
have fun with it
whatever that challenge is whatever
issue that that child brings
have fun with it
find the story in it find the lesson
what's this what's the happily ever
after to this because it's the happily
ever after every day you just gotta
focus on it don't don't you know eat
even the villains have happy ever
afterwards like it's like you just got
to figure out at the end of the day how
am I going to say I learned this or I
got this out of this even though I went
through the fire to get there I'm go or
I'm still going through it it's you
gotta find the enjoyment and the journey
do you care about Legacy
I thought I did
I had to Define what it was I'm still
defining what it is
I I've realized that my children aren't
my legacy
um
my children are my children my children
aren't necessarily mine they're their
own
uh I've been giving the stewardship and
uh the privilege for
a certain amount of time
to be able to guide them to the best of
my ability for 18 to 25 years but
they're their own people uh so I've
learned that that's not my legacy
um
what we can build together as a family
can become a legacy so what's your
legacy
my compassion
my uh
my gratitude which then probably then
turns into
my humility that's then turns into my
humor which then turns into my comedy
which attaches to my art form I mean
that's built into the compassion and
stuff as well too so
to be able people say man
he made the world a better place by
making people smile
and if I could do that through
my humor my music my art my movies my
finances I want to make people smile so
hopefully even when I'm gone
the things that I left behind make
people smile
I certainly believe that's the case
um you've made me smile over the years I
started watching uh wilding out on MTV
and then on YouTube throughout my entire
life I mean MTV was the only felt like
the only show on in my household growing
up in Plymouth and seeing it was kind of
my window into hip-hop culture and
commenting all those things and in every
respect of the word not only have you
put countless people on that you'll
never get credit for nor do you really
care about the credit clear but um
you've been a Pioneer
um in so many different art forms and
created this wonderful platform to put
other people on and that's something
that I look at and I really aspire to do
with my life as well like if I if I'm
able to help people reach their full
potential in the way you have for so
many people that people have no idea
about across comedy and entertainment
and music then I think that's a life
worth living and a life
worthwhile yeah that's exactly what you
have yeah so thank you thank you for
doing that that's another title um life
worthwhile sounds like a book let's get
that trading
let's keep that open thank you
appreciate it man this has been
beautiful thank you for the experience
pleasure to meet you thank you Nick
[Music]
Zoe you're a sponsor of this podcast and
I'm a big investor in the company you
guys know I'm really sitting still
because that's just the nature of my
life so whether I'm in a business
meeting with my investments or I'm
recording this podcast I'm always
running from A to B but the one promise
that I made to myself is to fuel my body
sufficiently and Zoe has been really the
key part of me succeeding in that
mission for those of you that don't know
I've been a Zoe member for about a few
months now ever since I had Zoe's
scientific co-founder Professor Tim
Spector on this podcast Zoe helps me to
understand how to make better food
choices for my long-term health and it's
all personalized to me eating the right
food is essential for me to keep me
going because some of my meetings are
often later in the day and so I need to
ensure that I keep my energy levels up
and Zoe allows me to understand which
foods work for me and which foods don't
eating the Zoe way I don't get that
dreaded afternoon crash and I feel great
so to get started with Zoe go to zoe.com
Steven and use my exclusive code
ceo10 for 10 off so many of you've been
asking me for a discount code here it is
CE 010 go to zoe.com
Steven and use my exclusive code ceo10
for 10 off and if you already use Zoe
send me a DM and let me know how you're
getting on
[Music]
foreign